# scenery-insitu

A rendering system based on the [scenery](scenery.graphics) library that performs in situ visualization of distributed numerical simulations. It is instrumented to work with simulations based on [OpenFPM](http://openfpm.mpi-cbg.de/) - an open-source framework for scalable particle- and mesh-based simulations.

The application handles rendering of both volume data (e.g. from mesh-based simulations of fluid dynamics) as well as discrete particles (e.g. from  molecular dynamics simulations).

## Volume Rendering and Volumetric Depth Images (VDIs)

For the rendering of volumetric data, the application performs distributed raycasting. The result of the rendering is either a simple image, which can be streamed for display, or a Volumetric Depth Image ([VDI](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6656177)), which is an explorable image representation. A VDI, once generated and streamed to a display client, can be exploratively visualized by re-rendering efficiently from new viewpoints. The rendering of the plain image is performed by the [DistributedVolumeRenderer](./src/test/kotlin/graphics/scenery/insitu/DistributedVolumeRenderer.kt) class, while the generation of a VDI on distributed volumetric data is performed by the [InVisVolumeRenderer](./src/test/kotlin/graphics/scenery/insitu/InVisVolumeRenderer.kt) class. A sub-VDI is generated by each rendering process using the custom compute shaders [VDIGenerator](./src/test/resources/graphics/scenery/insitu/VDIGenerator.comp) and [AccumulateVDI](./src/test/resources/graphics/scenery/insitu/AccumulateVDI.comp) which are dynamically combined at run time. The sub-VDIs are then composited into a single VDI using the custom compute shader [VDICompositor](src/test/resources/graphics/scenery/insitu/VDICompositor.comp). A couple of examples using this application for in situ visualization of volumetric data from OpenFPM simulations are provided in the OpenFPM repository: [Reaction-Diffusion example](https://git.mpi-cbg.de/openfpm/openfpm_pdata/blob/insitu_visualization/example/Grid/3_gray_scott_3d/main.cpp), [Fluid Dynamics example](https://git.mpi-cbg.de/openfpm/openfpm_pdata/blob/insitu_visualization/example/Numerics/Vortex_in_cell/main_vic_petsc_opt.cpp). Whether a simple image or a VDI is to be generated can be chosen in the [InVisVolume](https://git.mpi-cbg.de/openfpm/openfpm_vcluster/blob/insitu_visualization/src/VCluster/InVisVolume.cpp#L120) class of OpenFPM. The default is VDI generation.

## Particle Rendering

For the visualization of discrete particle-based simulations, this application supports distributed particle-as-sphere rendering. The particle rendering is performed by the [InVisRenderer](./src/test/kotlin/graphics/scenery/insitu/InVisRenderer.kt) class, and depth-based compositing is performed by the [Head](./src/test/kotlin/graphics/scenery/insitu/Head.kt) class. An example OpenFPM-based simulation using this application for in situ visualization of discrete particles is also provided in the OpenFPM repository: [Molecular Dynamics example](https://git.mpi-cbg.de/openfpm/openfpm_pdata/blob/insitu_visualization/example/Vector/3_molecular_dynamic_insitu/main.cpp).
